All right, let's write a bit more
complicated class component just so you
can kinda get some feeling of what it's
like to manage state and class component.
If we go back to our Adopt me,
so one thing that you're gonna
definitely have to do after we
did that class properties thing.
You're gonna have to start and
stop your server because
Parcel is not gonna pick
that up automatically.
So I should be able to run NPM, run dev.
Literally just stop and start it again.
Refresh my page, everything's good again.
If that's still not working for
you, obviously it worked for me,
I imagine it'll work for most of you.
But I'm just gonna show something.
Whenever Parcel gets in a bad state,
just do rm-rf.cache and dist.
Just remove those two folders.
They're generated by Parcel, and
then just run the server again.
It just clears out all of its cache,
right?
So that it starts fresh.
It'll take a bit longer, you can see
this took me six seconds instead of 5.3.
It takes a little bit longer for it to
get started, but obviously it's fine.
Refresh, everything's fine.
Okay, so let's go manage state and
a more difficult class component.
Let's create a new file and
we're going to call it carousel.JS.
So if we go look at our API again,
this is the one for Luna here.
You can see that she has five different
images of her that come back from the API.
And we wanna be able to nicely
rotate through all of those, right?
So if a user clicks one of them,
it shows a nice picture of them and
they can look closely at
each one of the pets.
So let's do exactly that.
We're gonna import component from React.
We're gonna say class
carousel extends component.
We're gonna say the state is equal to
the first network that's gonna be active,
right?
The first photo that we're gonna
show is the first one in there.
We're gonna have some default props.
So we're gonna give it a static
default props = images.
And we're gonna give it that default
image again if it doesn't have
an image by default.
http://pets/images.dev/apis.com/pets/none-
.jpg.
So let's talk about this for
just a second.
Basically we're saying, hey, if you don't
give me props for images, don't worry,
I have some default ones
I'm gonna fall back onto.
These do have to be static.
What does static mean?
That means I can do carousel as
an abstract clap, dot defaultProps.
As opposed to what you would do before,
which would be const
carousel = new carousel.
This is not gonna have
carousel.defaultProps.
Those won't be available.
That's only available on
the parent class here, right?
The carousel with the capital C.
What this will have is carousel.props,
which may or
may not be these default props.
So that's what that static means.
It means it's callable
one the abstract class.
And some of you might be looking
as I got away from Java.
So I didn't have to learn
to do this stuff anymore.
And typically in JavaScript,
this is not really a thing.
But in this particular case,
it does make a difference.
Some of these things do have to be static.
>> Is this we defaultProps the same
as prop types in defaultProps or
is it something?
>> It's different.
So the question is,
is this the same as prop types?
Prop types is something totally different.
I talked about my former course and
I don't wanna derail on it too much.
But it's basically just saying,
if you don't give me images, here is
some default images that we can use.
So then we can always assume that
there are images, which is good.
>> Okay.
>> The nice thing about this is,
TypeScript will pick up on these and
automatically it goes like, okay,
this is an array of strings, cool.
And you don't have to type your props
anymore cuz it reads them off of
the default props.
Okay, so now we're gonna have a render,
cuz as you may remember,
everything always has to have
a render no matter what.
Const active, and
we're gonna grab this off of state,
this.state, and const images = this.props.
Now let's chat a moment about this.
What is state versus prop?
One state is mutable, right?
It's what you use hooks for previously.
And mutable is just a really fancy way
of saying that this is changeable.
So I can call this.setState and
I can modify what active is.
This.props is what's
coming from my parents.
And you remember one-way data flow
that we talked about earlier.
This is one-way data flow,
this is read only.
I cannot change props.
Only the parent can change props.
So this is data flowing
down from my parent.
So I'm gonna get these
images from my parent,
which is gonna be the pet component.
And so this stuff always comes from the
parent whereas state is self-contained.
It's always contained within
the component itself.
Now props might be state from the parent,
right?
And that's actually true.
It is state from my parents.
But that means that the parents
gets to modify its own state, and
I guess that probably
bears mentioning as well.
The only thing that can modify state is
the component that contains it, right?
Nothing else can modify state.
So I can't call set state on a carousel
from pet or app or results or
anything like that, I can only do
it from within carousels itself.
Does that make sense?
It's one of those things that is hard
to explain because it should be kind of
intuitively obvious.
And the more you get into it,
it just kinda feels that way.
And let's just kinda get into it and
I'll explain more as we're going.
All right, so I'm gonna say return here.
We're gonna have a div that's
gonna encapsulate everything.
ClassName = carousel.
We're gonna have an image,
source is gonna be equal to images active,
right?
Whatever the currently selected image is,
that's gonna be the hero image here.
The alt is gonna be, this doesn't actually
have the name being passed into it,
so I just put animal.
But we probably could have done
a better alt text here by passing in
the name as well.
But for
now we're just gonna leave that off.
And the div className = carousel-smaller.
And I'm gonna do images.map,
photo and index.
Okay, and then we're going to say image,
Key = photo cuz that URL is
gonna be guaranteed unique.
Src = photo.
And then className,
when someone has selected the pet, right?
So if someone clicks on image 3 and
then they select that,
we wanna show an active class.
So the way we would do that is index
=== active ?"active" or
nothing, right?
So, if it's selected,
put an active class on there.
If it's not selected,
don't put a class on there.
There's other libraries, like CLSX,
I think is one of NPM packages that
make this, it's a nice little function
helper that helps you do this,
but this is just one ternary
that kinda helps us do it.
So again, if index is equal to active,
put active, if not, put nothing.
And then the alt,
we're gonna put animal thumbnail.
Okay, and then at the bottom,
make sure you export default carousel.
Okay, let's go implement
this with details.
So we're going to import,
Carousel, sorry, carousel like that,
from dot/carousel.
Okay, here we're gonna have
to grab images as well,
cuz that's gonna be
what's fed into carousel.
And then the first components
are the div details.
So here we're going to put
Carousel images = images.
So here on line 39, we just put it there.
Okay, so now we should be able to
pop over to our Adopt Me page.
And you can see there now we have Luna
sitting in my suitcase when I was
trying to pack to come, pack to travel.
She does not like it when I travel.
So it's still not interactive yet.
We can't click on these images, so
we do have to go make those interactive.
But just to kinda show you how
the default props work cuz we saw those.
Let's just make it so
images is equal to empty brackets there.
Well, actually nothing, cuz you don't
wanna pass anything into there.
So let's just delete that altogether.
And now you can see,
that's what the defaultProps do.
It's like if I don't pass anything in for
that, it's gonna like, okay,
I got default props, and
this is what populates there.
I absolutely love the art that
Alice did for this, right?
Super cute.
Okay, but we do have images,
let's put those in there.
And we have images, And
then last thing we need to
do is we just input an event handle on
here and then it's just gonna work.